---
title: 'Vibe bullshiting'
description: 'Vibe coding is only the future of some really bad code making it
into production, leaving the seniors to fix the mess of the managers and the
juniors all together'
pubDate: 'Mar 20 2025'
---


Since the arrival of all those LLMs, we knew that the time would come where
there would be a label to the activity or proccess of coding using only such
tools. On reddit you have communities like r/chatgptcoding and such, dedicated
to the mere process of, well, coding using only or mostly chatgpt and alikes,
and one would then say they're *chatgpt-coding* (wich doesn't sound good at all
in my opinion). We like to label stuff, but the problem in this case is not the
labels, is not the *chatgpt-coding* or the *vibe coding* but rather what they
mean, represent and ultimately will lead to.

You see, all this vibe coding thing is, I'm afraid, only a symptom of a much
larger problem that comes with the recent AI bubble, not only because it will
further make programmers illiterate, giving them even more *excuses* to not
think about the code and just "vibe" with it, but also because it's allowing a
lot of people that are not programmers and do not know about the fundamentals of
it to make software, and worse yet, to make it public. Just recently there was
someone who vibecoded a Saas app that in no time got API keys abused and SQL
injections all over the place. You can say that regular programmers in simpler
times also made these kind of mistakes, but regular programmers have also grown
ressilient to these kind of issues, and who ever makes this kind of things for a
living will have the nerve to be careful about these issues before going to
production, either by setting up tests or by using security auditting tools that
can point out potential problems in the code (or by using a framework that deals
with the basic configuration to avoid these kind of things). The guy with the
Saas app eventually vibe-solved the issues after a lot of hours of debugging and
a rather embarrassing admission that he had not put the api keys outside of the
code but they were rather hard coded into the platform (wich to be honest is a
mistake that most professional devs would not make on the production
environment. Sure, there are cases, as always, but it's more of a slip of the
dev rather than his incapaccity to see the problems it could cause). All of this
is to point out that this "trend" will only cause harder and bigger problems
that look like the ones caused by the "sass" guy, only to bring the seniors
along and fix the problems that the vibe coders are no longer able to, either
because they don't know or because vibe solving takes too much time when you
don't even know what you're solving and why it's wrong in the first place.

Now, I know that the "vibe coding rules" can be intrepreted as to be used on
personal projects, but if I'm honest, I've seen enough people using LLMs on
production code that I would not be surprised if some of them actually *vibe
coded* an entire feature just for the sake of it and pushed it to production
with *vibe coded* tests. The more time passes, the lest critical we are with the
code we are given by LLMs, and that certainly has me worried.

See you in the next rant.



